most people rarely hear stories about modern
slavery and human trafficking and even fewer
people are aware that modern slavery and
human trafficking happens right here in
the UK unfortunately the little that we do see in
the news or on social media can misrepresent the
reality that victims of modern day slavery and
human trafficking experience modern day slavery
and human trafficking is based upon using men
women and children as commodities for financial
gain victims of this crime are often sold for
forced labour sexual exploitation domestic
servitude criminal exploitation and even organ
harvesting exploiting them through a means of
force fraud deception and coercion we can easily
think that this only happens to people in far away
countries but the reality is that there are more
people enslaved in the world today than at any
point in human history and the international
labour organisation estimates that there are
nearly 50 million victims trapped in modern day
slavery somewhere in the world today to put that
in context for you that's nearly five times more
than the population of London currently trapped
and throughout the UK there have been increasing
numbers some look like a teenage boy who's been
coerced into cross county lines to smuggle and
distribute cannabis or it could be a woman who's
been trafficked into the country under false
pretences had her passport taken off her and
forced into online sex work or it might be forced
to work unlawfully on a fishing boat for weeks
at a time with no health care or safety equipment
there are even young girls being driven around the
country manipulated into having sex with strangers
these are just a few cases we've discovered and
there are many many more stories like them the
reality is that this is an organised and pervasive
crime active across our nation and its victims
and perpetrators hide in plain sight within our
society in order to combat such a well connected
network we have to be even more connected we have
to be the eyes and ears in our communities looking
out for one another and have the tools to know it
to see it and respond to it today we're going
to be exploring the ways that we as individuals
can combat this crime and equip ourselves
to be able to end slavery and change lives